let's turn to the Middle East because
Israeli forces are reported to shot dead
a 26-year-old American activist in the
occupied West Bank aenor IDI who's of
Turkish descent is said to have been
taking part in a protest against Jewish
settlement expansion in the town of beta
near Nablus turkey has described her
death as quote a murder the Israeli
military says shots were fired at
someone who they described as quote a
central instigator because they were
throwing stones at troops and says the
incident is is now being investigated
the US says it's urgently seeking
information about the death well our
world affairs correspondent in Jerusalem
Mike Thompson has some of the latest she
was uh attending um what's apparently a
regular demonstration against settlement
expansion in the West Bank which has
been increasing at quite a pace and
apparently or according to local media
uh Israeli troops tried to suppress the
demonstration they used uh it said live
ammunition stun grenades and and tear
gas to try and stop what was happening
and in the midst of all this uh it
thought the uh the the young American
woman uh was hit in the head she was
then taken to hospital in nablas but
Medics there were unable to save her
life and she was pronounced dead I know
this has happened only in the last hour
or so in terms of the details leaking
out has there been any reaction because
only last week for example the US state
depart imposing more sanctions because
they're so concerned at some of the
things happening in the West Bank with
settlers indeed that's that's quite
right Matthew yes the uh us has taken
that action because there's been growing
concern about settler violence it was
only a few weeks ago in the village of
zet in the uh West Bank uh that around a
100 settlers invaded the village and uh
cars were burnt homes were burnt down
and and a local Resident was killed in
the clashes that followed uh and these
attacks uh have been increasing
especially since the start of the Gaza
War causing quite a lot of alarm and
there have been several people
killed m